# ME-6104-Project
\textbf{Parametric Crane Boom Truss Model Tool}
At the Georgia Tech Crane Safety Research Center, researchers often do several types of analysis on crane booms, or jibs, the main load-bearing arm of the crane. Several types of cranes, such as crawler and tower cranes, contain a lattice boom, which is a fixed, welded arm composed of many steel beams typically arranged in a regular, repeating pattern. Typical research workflows involving crane structures utilize simulation-based analysis techniques such as Finite Element Analysis (FEA) or Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), which require a CAD model of the boom or larger crane assemblies. Currently, time-intensive manual remodeling is required any time analysis is needed on new or modified structures. This manual geometric generation is one of the most impactful bottlenecks in the design process, inhibiting researchers from rapid design iteration and simulation. This project seeks to eliminate this CAD design bottleneck by developing a parametric boom arm generation tool. This Python-based program will generate a boom structure when given several key design parameters, including overall truss length, base dimensions, tip dimensions (e.g. to calculate a taper angle), bay length (distance between nodes), structural cross-section types (e.g., circular tubes vs. square profiles), and truss section angle. The script will make use of CAD-focused Python libraries such as pythonocc to generate and preview the crane structure as a STEP file, a widely used solid-body file format compatible with most simulation software packages for further CAD design, FEA, or CFD analysis. This program should greatly streamline the crane design and analysis process, heavily impacting the work within the Georgia Tech Crane Safety Research Center.
